## Home

### Research Challenges of Identifying Integer Sequences Using the OEIS

The Mathematics and Computer Science Department of Muhlenberg College (link for the college here) will host a summer REU program that will concentrate on research projects associated with the *On-Line Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences®* (OEIS®) (link for OEIS here) and its role in stimulating new research. 

Sequences play an important role in number theory, combinatorics and discrete mathematics, among many other fields. They enumerate objects in sets and define relationships among items or properties shared between them. Integer sequences have inspired mathematicians for centuries. Likewise, they also inspire computer scientists. The quest to compute new, larger terms in important infinite sequences is harnessing the power of computing and promoting the use of new paradigms in distributed and cloud computing as well as Big Data. Current examples include the “Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search” to find Mersenne primes (sequence A000668 in OEIS) and Microsoft’s challenge to discover non-Mersenne or “lost” primes (sequence A138837). By gathering sequences – and a wealth of information about them – together in a common database, the OEIS provides the mathematically curious an invaluable resource with which to explore.

Our program aims to prepare students to become the next generation of mathematical scientists efficient in researching sequences and their applications through the OEIS database, the most successful of whom will have the capacity to look to the OEIS for inspiration. Our program will nurture this capacity by highlighting the contributions to the mathematical sciences of the On-Line Encyclopedia of Integer Sequences. A particular emphasis of our program will be to discuss the important role the OEIS has played in developing conjectures in areas that include number theory, algorithmic and enumerative combinatorics, combinatorial number theory, and many other mathematical fields, as well as the tools necessary for identifying such conjectures.

Introducing students to researching and identifying integer sequences is best when conducted in teams, the sense of which will be created for REU students through co-mentoring. Our program includes projects that are co-mentored by teams of college and university faculty experienced in using the OEIS database for research. This experience includes contributing new sequences to the database, extending the knowledge of sequences that carry the “more” tag, and developing new conjectures pertaining to integer sequences. The program also includes “horizontal teams” that assign groups of students to experienced co-mentors to enhance the mentoring experience.

The proposed program leverages Muhlenberg’s position within the Lehigh Valley Association of Independent Colleges (LVAIC) as well as their association with the Center for Discrete Mathematics and Theoretical Computer Science (DIMACS). LVAIC is a distinguished consortium of colleges and universities that has been promoting collaboration among its six member institutions and six associate member institutions throughout the Lehigh Valley and southeastern Pennsylvania. Founded in 1969, LVAIC is a consortium of Cedar Crest College, DeSales University, Lafayette College, Lehigh University, Moravian College, Muhlenberg College, with associate members Albright College, Alvernia University, Lehigh Carbon Community College, Neumann University, Northampton Community College, and Reading Area Community College. This consortium regularly facilitates forums for sharing best practices, exploring new opportunities, and sharing resources that meet the common needs of its members. Our REU mentors come from the LVAIC partner institutions giving our students a broader perspective, and introduce them to the mathematical sciences and computer science as a collaborative endeavor. For more about LVAIC, see https://www.lvaic.org/.
