## Projects

Description of potential projects

Benford’s Law. Benford’s law (also referred to as First-Digit Law) refers to frequency distributions of leading digits in certain types of real-life or numerical datasets [Wei15]. The law asserts that in many naturally occurring number collections the occurrence of smaller digits as “leading” digits is disproportionately greater than the occurrence of leading larger digits. This leads to some interesting statistical questions concerning sequences: What types of statistics can be done on the OEIS? Is there some distribution that emerges? What proportion of sequence in the OEIS converge or have some bounded property?

Graph Theory and Combinatorial Projects. Graph theory, and more generally combinatorics, is a natural connection to the OEIS. The program will explore several projects related to graph theory and combinatorics. Some examples include:
•	What (possibly finite) sequences can be generated based on graphs of size  and order ? For example, given some graph property , what sequences can be generated by this property? Let  be a positive integer and let  be a graph on  vertices with  edges Let  be the minimum number of edges to be deleted so that all the components of  that remain have less than  vertices.  What is the minimum (or maximum) value of  for all graphs  with vertices and  edges?  The resulting sequence considers m as a function of . 
•	There are several interesting sequences resulting from combinatorial problems on graphs. Could this procedure be extended to other structures such as fractals? Often these sequences do not converge, but have some cyclic pattern. Is it possible to “transform” a common sequence to some fractal pattern and determine if it converges?

Golden Ratio and generalized continued fractions. A001622 is the decimal expansion of golden ratio , which can be characterized as the irrational number having the simplest continued fraction expansion  = [1, 1, 1, …]. We will study properties of N-th generalized continued fraction of real numbers [AW11], which are continued fractions of denominator N, instead of 1 in the case of classical continued fraction expansions. After reviewing the basic set up and properties of generalized continued fractions from [AW11], we will investigate some open questions in this area. In particular, we will try to answer the following question: what irrational number will have the “simplest” N-th generalized continued fraction?

A081874, A081925, A020882. An integer triple (a, b, c) is called a primitive pythagorean triple when they are coprime and satisfy the equation . One method of generating all such triples, which is described in [Con13], is to use group actions given by matrix multiplication. We will try to generalize this method to find all primitive integer triples (a, b, c) satisfying , or, more generally  for a fixed arbitrary positive integer n. Tools will be drawn from elementary number theory and linear algebra, as well as computational experiments.

--This is now solved. Nowicki Families of Special Numbers. In a recent article, Andrzej Nowicki defined an integer  to be a special number if the equation    has non-zero solutions in  and  for every integer  [Now15].  Nowicki showed that  cannot be special if it is divisible by a prime congruent to 3 modulo 4 [Now15].  He then conjectured that  is a special number if an only if  where  and  is the product of prime congruent to 1 modulo 4.  He also computationally confirmed his conjecture for .  Can this bound be substantially improved?  What would it take to prove Nowicki’s conjecture?  Nowicki also provided a proof that shows that there are infinitely many special numbers.  Can we provide proofs to show that there are other infinite families of special numbers?

Ring of Integers Modulo n Written as the Sum of Two Squares Modulo n. A recent article provides necessary and sufficient conditions for a positive integer  so that every element in  can be written as the sum of two non-zero squares [HJL14b].  This article is the source for sequence A240370 in the OEIS.  For the integers  that do not satisfy the conditions given in the [HJL15] article, can we determine which elements in  cannot be written as the sum of two non-zero squares?  Can we determine if there are special subsets of  that can be written as the sum of two non-zero squares?  For example, can every square (or cube, etc.) in  be written as the sum of two non-zero squares?  What if we change the statement “non-zero squares” to “non-zero cubes” or “non-zero triangular number”, etc.  Successful investigation into this questions has a high potential to lead to additional entries in the OEIS.

- Project 1
- Project 2
- Project 3
- Project 4
- Project 5
